Cosmetologists, Nail Technicians, Facial Specialists, Full Specialists, Hair
Braiders, Hair Wrappers and Body Wrappers

On October 15, 2019, the Florida Board of Cosmetology voted on and approved the decrease of '
continuing education hours for cosmetologists, facial specialists, nail specialists and full
specialists license to, at a minimum, 10 hours of board-approved continuing education.




 provider’s name,
 the provider’s approval number,
 the licensee’s name,
the licensee’s license number,
the approved course title,
the course approval number,
the course completion date,

approved continuing education credit hours awarded in each subject
area covered by the course.


1.Course Outline: Attach a course outline specifying subjects, major topics, and subtopics to be covered in the course.
Each subject mustalso include a narrative summary.
2. Reference and Source Materials: Include a list of all reference and source materials, along with their publication date(s), for the course.
3. Course Evaluation: Attach a copy of the evaluation forms used to assess the learning experience, instructional methods,
and course materials.
4. Instructors: List the instructors for each course, and attach a resume for each instructor even if previously approved for another course.
Instructors must possess sufficient skills and knowledge in the subject areas being taught.
.
5. At least one complete copy of the course in its final form, as it will be presented to the
5. Record Keeping: Attendance records must be maintained for a minimum of four years.
Attendance records and course completion information for all course participants must be provided to the Department in a specified format acceptable to
the Department and within an agreed upon timeframe. These records must be made available to the Department upon request.
d. Fee: No fees


The ten (10) hours of continuing education shall include, at a minimum, all of the following '
subjects as they relate to the practice of cosmetology:

10 hours of CE
25-30 true false final
-1 hour HIV/AIDS,
-3 hours of sanitation and sterilization,
-.5 hour OSHA,'
-.5 hour workers’ compensation,
-2 hours of laws and rules,
-1 hours of chemical makeup,
-1 hour of environmental issues,
-1 hour of any subject related to the practice of cosmetology

Continuing Education (Chemical Makeup, Environmental Issues,
Elective, HIV/AIDS, State/Federal Laws & Rules, Occupational Safety Health Administration [OSHA],
Sanitation/Sterilization, Workers’ Compensation)
pvd469
Modes of Transmission
● Infection Control Procedures
● Clinical Management
● Prevention
● Behavioral Attitudes
--
HIV/Aids Definition
Transmission
Protection
HIV/Aids Myths
Stages of HIV
Diagnosis
Treatment
Most at risk
HIV and Salons
--


--
I have taken an HIV/AIDS course approved by the Florida Barbers’ Board. Can I get credit toward my cosmetology license?
 Cosmetologists,
 Nail Technicians,
 Facial Specialists,
 Full Specialists,
 Esthetician
 *Hair Braiders,
 *Hair Wrappers
 *Body Wrappers
 Removes registration requirements and licensure requirements for hair braiding, hair wrapping, and body wrapping by the Department.

 can only receive credit for Board of Cosmetology approved courses.

 Barber
 Florida Barbers
 Modes of transmission for HIV/AIDS and other communicable diseases
Infection control procedures, clinical management and prevention of HIV/AIDS and other communicable diseases
Next steps to take for an HIV-positive individual
Anti-HIV medications
Additional resources and materials available for the HIV-positive or AIDS patient
Appropriate attitudes when dealing with persons who may have HIV/AIDS or other communicable diseases

Submit a copy of the evaluation forms to assess the learning experience, instructional methods, and course materials.

List the instructors for each course and attach a resume for each instructor even if previously approved for another course.
 Submit at least one complete copy of the course in its final form, as it will be presented to the licensee, if approved.

Governing Agency
Name: Florida Division of Professions Barber Board
Phone: 8504871395
Fax: 8509210038
Website: http://www.myfloridalicense.com/DBPR/barbers/
Address: 2601 Blair Stone Rd. Tallahassee, 32301

Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation
Board of Cosmetology
2601 Blair Stone Road
Tallahassee, FL 32399
Phone: 850-487-1395 | Fax: 850-488-8040
www.myfloridalicense.com/DBPR/cosmetology
